First, maybe I'll talk a little bit about what is the Vibhachana meditation.
Vibhachana meditation is actually Sanskrit word, and which is translated as Langthong.
And again, the great Muslim K.G. Pardeshan always says, "Why is Langthong?"
or "Why is Vibhachan?"
"Vibh" means supreme in Sanskrit.
Vibhachana means seeing, supreme seeing, supreme seeing.
And what means supreme seeing?
That you never saw before, before, and now you beholden that.
That is, what is that?
That is the exact nature of everything.
This is then Mahamudras, named Mahamudra or Dzogchen,
or emptiness, Pandya Paramata, Madhyamaka.
Now you behold.
Exactly.
All those philosophical systems, that negative establishment, that, that result,
that this is the result, that now you see, see this.
And what is this now?
If I say simply, no grasping.
Vibhachana means no grasping.
Now Shamatha has grasping.
Shamatha has focus.
Your focus, that focus is grasping, grasping.
And Vibhachana has no grasping.
This grasping, what in the teaching device, in the Buddha teaching,
generally if you look, generally teaching, grasping divided into two.
The larger grasping and the personal grasping.
Larger grasping and the personal grasping, too.
The personal grasping is what in the teaching called ego clinging.
It is a clinging, or it is grasping.
Clinging, clinging, grasping, either word we use, it's same, personal clinging.
The larger grasping is phenomena grasping.
The all phenomena are grasping.
Grasping, we grasp phenomena many ways, with the level, with the title,
with the idea, with the presumptions, and all that with the grasping.
That is larger grasping.
And the personal grasping is ego clinging, ego.
And ego clinging is the fundamental cause of the samsara,
individually concerned, individually.
And of course, largely all the samsara is kept by it
because ego clinging in the samsara.
Ego clinging, the person that is clinging is the cause of the samsara,
our samsara, each of our samsara.
For that reason, great master, Nala Yuna said in the teaching,
"As long as you are grasping to the aggregates,
and that long you have the ego clinging.
As long as you have the ego clinging,
that long you have the emotion and it is activities."
That means karmas.
Then samsara is moving.
Samsara is standing.
And also therefore, ego clinging is the biggest obstacles for us,
for our personal concern, obstacles, the demons.
For that reason, again in the great teaching,
which many times talk that, it kind of ranks in my mind, always that.
He took quotations from Guru Purnima, some of them said,
"The ego clinging is the demon where this demon comes from,
is from one's own consumption.
This demon does not come from outside and enter our body, our self.
This demon comes from our own thoughts, our thoughts."
And some of the things, great master again,
he's on the Dajjal we said, one of his teachings,
one of his Dharma teachings he said,
"I, the egolessness wrathful,
came, ordered, you, ego, live right now, now.
If you don't live right now,
this egoless king wrath will destroy you in the state of the nothing,
stateful nothing, that you will be destroyed."
He said that.
It's true.
This ego clinging is the really the biggest demon.
And then what the great master Shati did was it, one of the cities.
From the sense of the biggest time until now,
all the troubles and difficulties, the challenges I went through,
it is your ego, your ego.
This big demon, why I'm going to keep this now?
This is how we're going to defeat this ego.
There's no other solutions to defeat, release, remove the ego.
It's only vipassana meditation.
Vipassana meditation is the most powerful and yet so simple technique
that will play with the person's ego clinging troubles
and as well as the phenomena larger that clinging, grasp.
And that is known as Mahamudra or the Dzogchen.
Or because of what you see, you never saw that before.
Never ring that in our mind before Buddha talks.
Today is ringing clearly that bell song in our heart and mind
and also somebody be holding that with the intellectually
that never did before.
Therefore, it is known as supreme seeing, vipassanas.
That is what we see today.
So this is the but. This is the but meditation.
That is again is whether it is personal clinging
or is phenomena larger clinging, it's clinging.
Simply put word in the clinging, clinging.
To clear where that is the vipassana.
Therefore, it's called vipassana.
Sing as I said for Mahamutras.
Why how to do this?
With the best of that shamatha meditation, calm and peaceful,
rest and relax that natural status, now you're going to look inwardly
to in that shamatha meditation.
In that shamatha meditation, every day is anything.
You're going to look inwardly.
When you look inwardly to that shamatha, there's nothing to see,
nothing to find.
It's total open and freedom.
That is the ultimate nature of the mind, mind, mind.
And to bring that realization because that is realization.
That is your realization.
To bring that realization always in the teachings
that you should have the certainty wisdom, certainty knowledge,
certainty what was does.
Certain means no doubt, no hesitations, no lingering,
no twisting mind back and forth.
You settle.
That is called certainties.
So meditation have to have certainty.
For those reasons, then in the teaching days, of course,
Nagarjuna, in the Buddha teaching, there's so many ways
to analyze those teachings.
We went really with the [inaudible]
and also like for different techniques in the Madhyamaka,
those astellic, every phenomena exists in a great emptiness state.
And then the kind of jaryat techniques, techniques of the,
or the reason and things, kind of astellic,
there's no ego clinging and so forth.
Those, all that.
But brain don't, boil down all those logic and the reason and things
to go to the simple state that is, is to our mind.
Mind is what the great Masjid the Doki teacher used to say that.
And we don't let the smoke in the room.
That means the ancient time in the Tibetan.
They cook food inside.
Of course, how that everybody does.
But they always have to have the wood.
Wood, all that.
So what that means, cow dung, not cow, young dungs and so forth.
There's many times the smoke is that.
House becomes out of smoke.
Smoke is that.
You don't let the smoke.
You don't let the smoke out.
Put down the fire from the, from the stove.
Put down. Put down, right?
Put out. Put out.
Put out the fire from the, from the, from the stove.
Stops. Then, of course, naturally smoke stopped.
Similarly, bring down all these different things.
If we come to the boil down to the essence point, is mind,
from mind we're going to reveal the old essence teaching
of the Buddhas, that emptiness, nature, what Buddha taught.
That is actually what Buddha taught.
All those teachings bring up to this pyramid, pyramid to the point
that Dzogchen teachings, all the Mahamudar teachings,
inspires, pyramids, pyramids, pyramids.
Pyramids, all the teaching to the point is to the mind.
They bought that.
But to a gradually lead everyone,
from the Hinayana gradually to the state point.
When we discover the mind, natural,
we discover everything.
Everything, okay.
And therefore, to go through all different analyzations,
simple analyzations, things, what in the teaching.
Here, like the great master mentioned to you,
very briefly those things.
As you know, we don't have to go through all these things.
And that's simply of the looking.
Where is the mind?
Mind. Looking to the mind's, mind's past, present and future.
Where is the mind in the past?
Where mind is now?
Where mind is in the future will be.
And we started to analyze what answer we're going to have.
A mind has a form, what kind of form?
Is it rectangle, square, triangle, long, short, what?
Any of those, if you apply the color, what color mind has?
White, yellow, red, blue, green, whatever color.
If you apply any of these thoughts,
that anyone, even you take in the mind and try to ask that,
find out with the mind, it's none of those.
There's no answers, speeches.
Every question whatever we ask to this mind,
it reaches the same point to the speechless states.
That is nature.
And then where is grasping?
Clinging, it's something.
That's such a big obstacle. Big hand is true, it is a big obstacle.
Where is that?
Even that is not.
Not any places.
It's not in the past, not in the future, will be.
Not in the present, any direction, any sight, any place.
That is what matters.
That is a, with that, we're as servitors.
To continue your cave as mind, simply in the Buddha teaching, as emptiness.
Emptiness. Emptiness is not just blank emptiness,
it's beyond the emptiness, not emptiness.
It's beyond any category of thoughts.
Any imagination.
It's speechless, inexpressible.
It's like sky.
It's not like blank sky, blank sky.
It is infinite fullness sky.
That is the nature of this mind.
How to behold that? How to go?
With that understanding, we're going to maintain.
That, I said before, is meditation.
That is meditation.
Maintaining, up-keeping that with meditation, with techniques, I said,
joy, joyful effort, mindfulness, alertness, can be economic.
Economic means no effort.
Not making effort. Relax, calm, and peace.
When we meditate, there's continuity there.
We maintain that status, then we move.
Our realization is advancing, and our realization is deepening.
Those are known as then, moving to the stage's body.
It's named as a status, but there's nothing to move in extended
as the stage's status. Stages. It's all inexplorations.
Discovering. Discovering.
So that is my brief talk today, and thank you.
I won't have a question today.